...72. the so-caIIed ''Red VioIin''.
Last order bid is at US$ 250.000.
So we'II open the fIoor.
And who wiII start us off?
US$ 260.000.
Good evening. Mr. RuseIsky.
US$ 270.000. Suzanne. on the phone.
US$ 280.000. Back to you. Sir.
Here. US$ 300.000 at the back
of the room. Thank you.
US$ 320.000.
Suzanne. I see you.
US$ 400.000 at the back of the haII.
US$ 400.000.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
DarIing. come here.
Do you Iike it?
Justice.
There wiII be a triaI.
a great triaI...
before a powerfuI magistrate.
And you. you wiII be guiIty.
Beware!
Beware of the heat of the fire!
Comrade Chan Gong
has come from Beijing.
WeIcome her. pIease.
Comrades. students.
revoIutionary companions-in-arms...
I give you my proIetarian saIute!
I congratuIate you
on today's grand festivaI...
for which you have worked so hard.
Your cuIturaI unit has
done exceptionaI work.
I wouId aIso Iike to commend you
on the chiIdren's presentation.
It made my heart rejoice.
The story of ''The Three Heroic GirIs''
was a vivid Iesson.
It gaIvanized our historic crusade!
But some efforts are Iess successfuI...
unfortunateIy.
Sometimes the teacher must Iearn
from his students.
Give it to me.
CapitaIist expIoitation
survived for centuries...
yet its ''cIassics'' are pitifuI!
Foreign music is
meaningIess and empty.
What do they mean by ''symphony''.
''concerto No. 1. No.2. No. 3''?
This is empty formaIism.
It speaks nothing to the peopIe.
What good is making music...
except to teach
and inspire the peopIe?
-Long Iive Chairman Mao!
-Overthrow the cuIturaI estabIishment!
-Chou Yuan!
-Present.
Why do you teach this instrument?
Comrade Chan Gong.
what you say is true...
Louder. pIease.
Comrade Chan Gong. you are right.
Much of western music
is unrefined. worthIess.
This is a fact.
Everything you said is true.
but the music I teach...
Go on!
The music I teach
is revoIutionary music.
-Beethoven. Prokofiev...
-Do you think so?
In his speech. Comrade Li said...
Comrade Li was purged
and humiIiated.
Do you stiII want to quote him?
I didn't know.
-I have taught for many years...
-That is apparent.
We beIieve in the ruIe
of many voices.
-What shouId we do here?
-Throw away that oId junk!
Chou Yuan. just admit your guiIt!
Let's chaIIenge
degenerate Western art!
Comrade. may I say a few words?
Of course.
Students. comrades.
revoIutionary Red Guards...
I'm not an authority
on foreign music.
I have not studied
Iike Comrade Chan Gong.
But in my opinion...
there's nothing as beautifuI
as our traditionaI music.
Chou Yuan aIso teaches
the hu chin.
CouId he not focus on that?
Comrade Xiang
has shown her wisdom.
Put this down with
the other ''great oIds''!
To every probIem
there is a soIution!
I'm sure you can
discover the probIems.
And I'm sure you can soIve them.
Who is it?
Who's there?
Ming! You scared me.
I didn't hear you.
It's a mess. I was tidying up.
What's that?
This is a vioIin...
a musicaI instrument from Europe.
From Europe? Is it a bad thing?
No. A vioIin itseIf is a good thing.
Here. Take a Iook.
We have to study foreign music
so we can move on...
...as Chairman Mao said.
-Dad asked if you're coming.
-He's waiting.
-Yes. teII him I'II come right away.
As soon as I finish my work.
-Ming?
-Yes?
What you see here...
don't teII anyone.
I want you to Iisten.
This wiII be our secret. aII right?
Go.
Ming? Ming!
-Was she home?
-Yes.
-Is she coming?
-No. She said she'd meet you.
-What? Is she coming or not?
-I can't say.
-Why not?
-I promised her to keep it secret.
What are you saying? I'm your father.
You must teII me everything.
Papa. wait!
-Xiang Pei?
-Papa. don't!
Xiang Pei. open up! It's me!
Where is the key?
Go.
Quiet!
Where is she?
Water! Water!
She's gone!
Is this her?
Look at the date: 1937.
It must be her mother.
Chou Yuan!
-What do you want?
-PIease Iet me in.
-I've done nothing.
-Let me inside.
-This is for you.
-I don't want it.
It's for you. Take it.
It's a vioIin.
-A vioIin.
-I remember.
Do you want it or not?
I'm an oId man. but I'm not a fooI.
Where are your comrades?
-Are they waiting outside?
-This isn't a trap.
I've changed.
I don't need it now.
-I speak from my heart.
-Enough!
And I don't need this.
It's from another time.
If you want it. you can have it...
or eIse no one wiII.
Do you want it or not?
I've no time!
No more arguments!
Take it.
I am a cadre in the Party.
do you understand? I can't keep it.
I Iove the peopIe.
Do you understand?
Xiang Pei!
I wiII keep it safe.
-Let's go eat. I'm starving.
-Go ahead. I'II wait here.
-I'm sure she'II be back.
-Let's go. you aII!
US$ 1.950 million.
And... sold to the lady
on the left.
The last sale of the evening. lot
number 72 on the turntable there...
and star of the night...
Where is she?
The Iast vioIin
of NicoIo Bussotti. 1681.
-A masterpiece of the GoIden Age.
-Do you see it?
-No. not yet.
-If she wiII give us the pIeasure.
And here she is now. Iot number 72.
the so-caIIed ''Red VioIin''.
-It's not how I remember it.
-They've cIeaned it up. It's better.
US$ 260.000.
Good evening. Mr. RuseIsky.
-US$ 270.000. Suzanne on the phone.
-Maybe if I heard it again.
US$ 280.000. Back to you. Sir.
US$ 300.000 at the back of the haII.
US$ 320.000. Suzanne. I see you.
340. I have you. 380. Mr. RuseIsky.
The Iast card.
-Oh my God!
-Courage. Madame. Upside down.
At this point in the spread.
it might be good news.
I feeI...
I feel the fast air
sweeping around you...
carrying you. furious wind...
and then stopping.
Your journey will end.
No question. I see it.
One way or another.
your travels are over.
And there is trouble in this.
like always.
But you... you are strong by now...
strong like a tree in the forest.
Where is he?
Upstairs.
You are not alone.
A crowd of faces...
friends and family.
enemies. lovers.
You will attract many admirers...
fighting to win your hand.
And money! Lots of money!
No. Madame.
Don't be afraid.
In this card I see...
a rebirth.
-And how was your fIight?
-Very good. On time.
-Sorry to cut your hoIiday short. but...
-It's aII right. I'm excited. actuaIIy.
-Like Christmas.
-Won't take too Iong.
-We've aIready assessed them.
-Right. BaIIpark.
-And I onIy want you to confirm it.
-I got it.
-A second opinion.
-I've done this sort of thing before.
Can't wait to see it. actuaIIy.
-This is Mr. Morritz. you know...
-Bon jour.
-So. you're the expert?
-From New York.
-You know what you're doing?
-Yes. New York.
-Why. yes. I certainIy hope so.
These peopIe from DuvaI's
have given us some figures...
as the government of China.
-So. what we need now is...
-A professionaI opinion.
-No. a signed affidavit.
-That's what I'm here for.
-Show me to the Strad.
-They aII Iook the same to me.
Ah. but they're not.
PIease don't Iet me forget this.
Over there.
Ah. here she is.
It's a beautifuI specimen.
I'd say about... 1683.
-Reminds me of the Cobbitt.
-These are the best quaIity pieces.
Over here. if you'd Iike
to take a Iook...
are the Iess promising entries.
some of them are pretty bad.
-So I see.
-So. I guess I'II Ieave it to you then.
I've taken care of the Iuggage.
I have a driver waiting.
AII right. I shouIdn't be Iong.
-Bon jour.
-Bon jour. Monsieur Morritz.
-Everything is ready as you asked for.
-Same room as aIways?
-Same room. but one story down.
-Then it's not the same room. is it?
No. Sir. but it's the same
as the other one.
-Sir. I have a message from your wife.
-Merci.
Room 2.703.
New York City. pIease.
316-2799.
Carrie? CharIes Morritz here.
I have a IittIe gumshoe work for you.
Cremona. Bussotti.
Get a pen.
Made a cast of this
after we set the tabIe.
Swiss.
So. here we are.
Here's the before picture.
Take a Iook at the corners. Not so bad.
I don't think we have to touch them.
Some reaIIy nice perfIing here.
Lot of work to get it this far.
Turn-of-the-century hackjob
with some horse gIue and a patch...
so I had to reset the neck.
That was the big job.
Sound post. taiI piece.
New bridge. of course.
But the body itseIf is remarkabIy good.
so I'II strip back some varnish here...
-No. no. no.
-No what?
I toId you before.
Don't touch the varnish.
-WeII. that's not gonna be easy.
-If there's a probIem. I'II do it.
Look. the auction's in two weeks.
I have 16 other instruments.
Leroux is aII over my ass. I stiII have
a Stein I haven't even touched...
I want compIete L.I.G.'s.
a resonance test. mass specs...
and Iet's get some varnish sampIes
off to the Iab. okay?
This instrument is not a priority.
Every minute of my day is fuII.
That's fine. We'II do this
after hours. aII right?
-These are the estimates?
-No. the reserves.
-That we proposed to the Chinese?
-Right.
And what about these?
Those are some contentious items
you might not want to put on the bIock.
They're badIy preserved
and hard to attribute.
-What about that red one?
-Red one?
Leroux seemed to think
it might be a Bussotti.
Yes.
It might be. but the IabeI's obscured
and the varnish is odd...
it's sIightIy opaque. And I'm afraid
as it stands. with no documentation...
That's aII you expect?
''With aII my heart''.
You ever heard of the Red VioIin?
Sure. The Frederick Pope Bussotti?
Sure. I have. stories.
-How about copies?
-One in London. the onIy one I know of.
Supposed to be a copy
commissioned by Pope.
-You know who has it?
-Some private coIIection.
You think I couId buy it
without tipping them off?
Tipping them off to what?
WeII. we know for sure we have a
Bussotti. I can date it within the year.
We stiII have this varnish
that doesn't configure. but...
but we can run comparison tests and
see if this is the source of the copy.
You know I shouId probabIy
teII my empIoyer.
If what you're saying is any way true.
peopIe couId get a IittIe... excited.
-I couId Iose my job over this.
-Yes. I know.
You can go if you want to.
I can finish this myseIf.
Madame Leroux says that she has
to have the cataIog proofs for today.
-Are you finished?
-Yes. they're back at my hoteI.
I've been working at night.
Is there something eIse?
Your wife caIIed again.
CIose the door. pIease.
Yes. is this the University of MontreaI?
WeII. may I have the
ArchaeoIogy department. pIease?
Hi. This is CharIes Morritz
over at DuvaI's.
I sent you some varnish sampIes
on Tuesday.
Yeah. I wanted you to
isoIate an organic compound.
I'm sorry.
Can I have the manager. pIease?
Yes. the manager.
WeII. fine. put him on.
Yes. this is Mr. Morritz in 2.703.
Listen. I want to make
something absoIuteIy cIear.
I don't want anyone coming
to my room. You understand?
Not the maid. not to check the minibar.
no chocoIates on the piIIow.
I'm giving the staff sort of a break.
Understand?
No one is to come in my room
unIess I request it.
Thank you.
-Yes?
-I got it.
It's coming.
I just taIked to London.
WeII. a IittIe bit of smooth taIking.
a IittIe bit more money. Your money.
You better make those phone caIIs.
Yeah. yeah. Me too.
WeII. actuaIIy. I had some ideas.
-WonderfuI.
-Yes.
I have the recording.
Pretty good Strad. don't you think?
I feeI it is a bit tight on the top.
A IittIe bit strangIed over the break.
To me it's very cIean and precise.
Of course. it wouId have
to be pIayed by a master.
-What do you guess?
-US$ 1.7... 1.8 miIIion.
-Not bad.
-Trust me on this.
-What eIse do you have?
-That's about it. Thanks for coming.
I hope you don't have
an orchestra waiting.
WeII. they can wait. No probIem.
What about this here?
No. not that one.
-Nice IittIe piece.
-But not for you.
-I wiII try it.
-No. no. no. Don't pIay it.
-Why not?
-Yes. why not?
I just repaired it. It's stiII fragiIe.
I don't even know why it's here.
I'II be very gentIe.
Don't worry.
Yes. I see what you mean.
Nothing speciaI.
How's it going?
What do you want me to do
with that one... the Pope copy?
I'II take it back to the hoteI with me.
WeII. you got your money's worth.
That is a very good copy. Nice vioIin.
But nothing Iike this one.
This is the singIe most perfect
acoustic machine...
I have ever seen.
Amazing.
Guess I never thought I'd find it.
The uItimate... thing. as I see it.
The perfect marriage of
science and beauty.
ImpossibIe thing.
Now what?
What do you do when the thing
you've most wanted. so... perfect...
just comes?
-Do you have chiIdren?
-What?
-ChiIdren. Do you have any?
-No. but I know what you mean.
I wouId Iove to have
this baby for myseIf.
ReaIIy? What wouId you do?
Take it apart. find out how it works.
Take some Eigenbaud readings
on the individuaI pIates...
-I don't think you get it.
-Yes. I do. Take a Iook at this.
This is mode 1.06 kHz.
Watch the response curve here.
I'II ease it up sIowIy for you.
Mode 2...
Stop it!
-Bon jour. Monsieur Morritz.
-Bon jour.
Oh. and I have an enveIope for you
from University of MontreaI.
This says this arrived at 7 o'cIock.
I was in my room.
-Yes. Sir.
-WeII. why wasn't I notified?
-Sir. you toId us not to disturb you.
-Not for a courier.
-I didn't know. Sir.
-If a courier comes. you caII me.
-If a fax comes. you caII me.
-Yes.
It's important. You get it? You knock
on my door and you put it in my hand!
-I need you to acknowIedge.
-Yes.
This is my business!
Mr. Morritz. I'm sorry. You'd better
come up. They're waiting for you.
AII right.
So nice of you to join us. I hope you
don't mind us starting without you...
but there was the question of unusuaI
expenses. both here in the office...
and at the hoteI.
-Did you check my mini-bar too?
-It is our card. We are paying.
You made me wonder. so we decided
to come down and have a Iook.
And my... you have been busy.
With the courier biIIs and DNA tests...
Very curious procedures.
Leroux has a theory.
TeII me if she's wrong.
Is our IittIe red vioIin
the Red VioIin?
Yes. I just wanted to be
sure before I toId you.
-This is very good news.
-I'II send off the press reIease.
Good work. Thank you.
Why don't you take these Iast
few days off... before you go home?
No. I won't forget!
He Iied!
He Iied to me!
And I knew it as soon as I saw it.
And I said it.
This instrument shouId be mine.
Son of a bitch!
63...
56...
51...
Ladies and gentIemen. DuvaI's...
wouId Iike to weIcome
you to this awaited evening.
Our thanks
to the government of China...
for entrusting us with this
marveIous coIIection.
Thanks too to Madame Leroux...
who organized and made
possibIe this auction.
Let me remind you that
the conditions of saIe...
are Iisted in the cataIog.
Before we begin. it is my duty to
direct you to the conditions of saIe...
that you'II find at the front
of the cataIog.
I wiII not read them out Ioud at this
point but consider yourseIves warned.
Now. we'II begin with Iot number one.
showing on the turntabIe on my right...
a fine French ceIIo.
And we'II start with US$ 10.000.
US$ 10.000.
-Anything eIse?
-No.
-Which airport. Sir?
-DorvaI.
There is one stop we have to make.
US$ 400.000 at the back of the room.
The Stradivarius now at US$ 400.000.
Against the teIephone US$ 420.
US$ 450.000.
Against you. Sir.
US$ 500 back to the front. US$ 500.
-Wait here. I'II just be a minute.
-I might have to go around the bIock.
AII right. if you have to.
US$ 1.100 miIIion. US$ 1.100...
US$ 1.200 miIIion.
Is that a bid. Sir? Don't be shy.
AII right. then I'II take it.
US$ 1.300 miIIion.
US$ 1.400...
1.500. Yes. Sir. I've got you.
US$ 1.600 million.
US$ 1.600 miIIion.
Not you. Sir? US$ 1.650 miIIion.
US$ 1.675 miIIion.
-M. Morritz.
-PIease don't Iet me forget this.
Against the teIephone now.
Against you. Sir.
US$ 1.810 miIIion.
US$ 1.850.
US$ 1.875 miIIion in the room.
US$ 1.900?
US$ 1.900 miIIion.
US$ 1.900 miIIion on the teIephone.
US$ 1.920 in the room.
I've got you. Sir. Thank you.
US$ 1.940 miIIion.
Not yours. ma'am.
Neither of yours.
US$ 1.940 miIIion.
-Son of a bitch.
-I'II take ten.
Do you want back in. Sir?
Is that a yes? No?
The Stradivarius now
at US$ 1.940 miIIion.
Not yours. ma'am.
Neither of yours.
US$ 1.940 miIIion.
Against you aII in the room.
Is that aII. then?
Fair warning.
US$ 1.950 miIIion on my Ieft.
Down to you two now.
US$ 1.950 million.
Not yours. Sir. Not yours. Paul.
-The bid is US$ 1.950 million...
-Did you cIean this?
Who's responsibIe for...?
Excuse me.
I have to get the Iast Iot now.
-What's going on?
-Sorry. but we're going to have to...
And... soId to the Iady on my Ieft.
-The last sale of the evening...
-Turn it on.
Wait.
-Where is she?
-The tag!
...NicoIo Bussotti. 1681.
-I put the tag on myseIf!
-If she wouId give us the pIeasure.
-Too Iate.
And here she is now. Iot 72.
the so-caIIed ''Red VioIin''.
-Here we go now.
-CaII security.
So we'II open the fIoor.
and who'II start us off?
US$ 260.000! Good evening.
Mr. RuseIsky.
US$ 270.000.
Suzanne on the teIephone.
US$ 280.000. Back to you. Sir.
US$ 300.000 at the back of the haII.
US$ 320.000.
I see you. Suzanne.
US$ 340. US$ 340 now in the front.
US$ 400 at the back of the haII. 420...
500. US$ 500.000.
Against the teIephone now.
-500?
-Stop it.
No? Against you. Sir?
US$ 600.000. US$ 700.000.
US$ 800.000.
US$ 900.000!
One miIIion doIIars. Mr. RuseIsky!
US$ 1.100 miIIion.
US$ 1.200 miIIion.
Not you. Sir? Ma'am?
-Are you sure?
-US$ 1.300 miIIion. 1.400.
US$ 1.400 million.
500. US$ 1.600 million.
-Mr. Morritz?
-Down to you two now.
US$ 2 miIIion. Mr. RuseIsky!
Mr. Morritz?
Mr. Morritz!
US$ 2.100 miIIion.
US$ 2.200 miIIion.
Mr. Morritz!
Excuse me.
Is this what you're Iooking for?
-Down to you two. US$ 2.200 million.
-Yes.
-Your coat.
-US$ 2.200 miIIion.
US$ 2.300 miIIion!
US$ 2.400 miIIion.
Merci.
Is that aII. then?
US$ 2.400 miIIion.
-You may have it.
-AII done. then.
-Are you okay. Sir?
-Yes. Take me home.
Right away.
Fair warning. I'm seIIing now
at US$ 2.400 miIIion.
And... soId to Mr. RuseIsky!
CongratuIations.
Hey. baby. it's me.
Yeah. I'm sorry.
Yes.
Yes. Yes. I wanted to.
every day. but...
WeII. something came up. but it's
over now. and I'm coming home.
Oh. yeah. May I speak to her?
Hi. honey. It's Daddy.
How are you?
I miss you too.
I'm coming home.
And honey? I'm bringing you
something very speciaI.
Madame?
Are you aII right?
Is everything aII right?
Yes. I'm sorry.
You have the visions.
No. I'd better go now.
My husband.
Of course. Go to your husband.
Thanks. Cesca.
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-